readme.md, before:

     .__ _ __.
    ( (  :  ) )   _____
     ||  |  ||   |_   _|__  __ _ _  _ ___
     ||  |  ||     | |/ _ \/ _` | || / -_)
     ||__|__||     |_|\___/\__, |\_,_\___|
     |||||||||                |_|  Chef, Meet Capistrano
     '"""""""'

# Summary

Use Capistrano to define variables and make them visible to your chef recipes.

Assumes that machines are ready to go for chef-solo, at the moment.

Very much a work in progress.

# Quick Start

Getting started using Toque is very easy. First, require it in your `Capfile` before you load your main `deploy.rb`:

    require 'toque/capistrano'

Toque comes with several built-in recipes. They are all in the `toque` cookbook and can be registered with toque with the following code:

    cookbook :default

Additional cookbook paths can be registered with the `cookbook` function and passing the full path to the cookbook. For example:

    # example custom cookbook:
    cookbook 'cookbooks/myapp'

Out of the box, Toque provides support for configuring deploy users, resque workers and logrotate for your application. It bases the settings on capistrano variables.

To get started with the `user` recipe, add the following to your capistrano `deploy.rb`:

    # admin_user is the user that recipes are run as and MUST have sudo
    set :admin_user, 'admin'

    # deploy_user is the name of the user that the application will be run as.
    # Defaults to the 'user' value that you may have already set.
    set :deploy_user, 'deploy'

    # register the 'toque::user' recipe with Toque
    recipe 'toque::user'

That's it! If you run the `run_recipes` task, it will execute the `user` recipe on the server:

    cap chef:run_recipes

ALL capistrano variables are visible to your chef recipes under the 'cap' namespace. This prevents collisions between cap variables and some built-in Chef attributes (eg: `domain`). For example, to access the `shared_path` Capistrano variable, you would do the following in your Chef recipe:

    node.cap[:shared_path]

`recipe` takes the same options as `run` and recipes are run in the order that they are defined in the file. For instance, you would want the `toque::logrotate` recipe only on the `app` and `resque` roles, like as follows:

    recipe 'toque::logrotate', :roles => [ :app, :resque ]

Toque recipes can be registered by using a symbol without the `toque` namespace. For instance, the above example can be rewritten as the following:

    recipe :logrotate, :roles => [ :app, :resque ]

# Chef Server

For those of you running Chef Server, Toque also supports running `chef-client` on your nodes with the same ease as running a regular cap task. To enable access to these, just set the `:enable_chef_server` Capistrano variable to `true` as follows:

    set :enable_chef_server, true

This will add the `toque:chef_client` task, for executing `chef-client` on your nodes. Currently, this will be run with `sudo` and simultaneously on all nodes except where `:chef_client => false` is set. For example, to prevent `chef-client` from being run on your primary database server, you could do:

    role :db, 'db001.example.com', :chef_client => false

## TODO

 * `before_recipe` and `after_recipe` hooks
 * recipe plugin system, so you can add recipes by just loading new gems
 * `chef-client` support for Chef Server infrastructures
 * optimized running of recipes (run all required recipes on a given server at the same time)
 * sequential running across servers in a role with a timeout

## Acknowledgements

Work on this was inspired by my use of Chef at [Ticket Evolution](http://www.ticketevolution.com)

## License

MIT License

## Author

Spike Grobstein   
spikegrobstein@mac.com   
http://spike.grobste.in   
https://github.com/spikegrobstein   

## Copyrights

Toque software is &copy;2012 Spike Grobstein (see above) and builds on top of [Capistrano](https://github.com/capistrano/capistrano) and uses it to orchestrate [Chef](http://www.opscode.com).

Commit message:

added some warnings about using this in production in the readme

readme.md, after:

     .__ _ __.
    ( (  :  ) )   _____
     ||  |  ||   |_   _|__  __ _ _  _ ___
     ||  |  ||     | |/ _ \/ _` | || / -_)
     ||__|__||     |_|\___/\__, |\_,_\___|
     |||||||||                |_|  Chef, Meet Capistrano
     '"""""""'

# Summary

Use Capistrano to define variables and make them visible to your chef recipes.

Assumes that machines are ready to go for chef-solo, at the moment.

Very much a work in progress. Be wary of using in production as each release may drastically change the interfaces, names of functions and behavior of the application. You have been warned.

# Quick Start

Getting started using Toque is very easy. First, require it in your `Capfile` before you load your main `deploy.rb`:

    require 'toque/capistrano'

Toque comes with several built-in recipes. They are all in the `toque` cookbook and can be registered with toque with the following code:

    cookbook :default

Additional cookbook paths can be registered with the `cookbook` function and passing the full path to the cookbook. For example:

    # example custom cookbook:
    cookbook 'cookbooks/myapp'

Out of the box, Toque provides support for configuring deploy users, resque workers and logrotate for your application. It bases the settings on capistrano variables.

To get started with the `user` recipe, add the following to your capistrano `deploy.rb`:

    # admin_user is the user that recipes are run as and MUST have sudo
    set :admin_user, 'admin'

    # deploy_user is the name of the user that the application will be run as.
    # Defaults to the 'user' value that you may have already set.
    set :deploy_user, 'deploy'

    # register the 'toque::user' recipe with Toque
    recipe 'toque::user'

That's it! If you run the `run_recipes` task, it will execute the `user` recipe on the server:

    cap chef:run_recipes

ALL capistrano variables are visible to your chef recipes under the 'cap' namespace. This prevents collisions between cap variables and some built-in Chef attributes (eg: `domain`). For example, to access the `shared_path` Capistrano variable, you would do the following in your Chef recipe:

    node.cap[:shared_path]

`recipe` takes the same options as `run` and recipes are run in the order that they are defined in the file. For instance, you would want the `toque::logrotate` recipe only on the `app` and `resque` roles, like as follows:

    recipe 'toque::logrotate', :roles => [ :app, :resque ]

Toque recipes can be registered by using a symbol without the `toque` namespace. For instance, the above example can be rewritten as the following:

    recipe :logrotate, :roles => [ :app, :resque ]

# Chef Server

For those of you running Chef Server, Toque also supports running `chef-client` on your nodes with the same ease as running a regular cap task. To enable access to these, just set the `:enable_chef_server` Capistrano variable to `true` as follows:

    set :enable_chef_server, true

This will add the `toque:chef_client` task, for executing `chef-client` on your nodes. Currently, this will be run with `sudo` and simultaneously on all nodes except where `:chef_client => false` is set. For example, to prevent `chef-client` from being run on your primary database server, you could do:

    role :db, 'db001.example.com', :chef_client => false

## TODO

 * `before_recipe` and `after_recipe` hooks
 * recipe plugin system, so you can add recipes by just loading new gems
 * `chef-client` support for Chef Server infrastructures
 * optimized running of recipes (run all required recipes on a given server at the same time)
 * sequential running across servers in a role with a timeout

## Acknowledgements

Work on this was inspired by my use of Chef at [Ticket Evolution](http://www.ticketevolution.com)

## License

MIT License

## Author

Spike Grobstein   
spikegrobstein@mac.com   
http://spike.grobste.in   
https://github.com/spikegrobstein   

## Copyrights

Toque software is &copy;2012 Spike Grobstein (see above) and builds on top of [Capistrano](https://github.com/capistrano/capistrano) and uses it to orchestrate [Chef](http://www.opscode.com).
